VINICIUS DE MORAES

Eu deixarei que morra em mim o desejo de amar os teus olhos que são doces
Porque nada te poderei dar senão a mágoa de me veres eternamente exausto.
No entanto a tua presença é qualquer coisa como a luz e a vida
E eu sinto que em meu gesto existe o teu gesto e em minha voz a tua voz.
Não te quero ter porque em meu ser tudo estaria terminado
Quero só que surjas em mim como a fé nos desesperados
Para que eu possa levar uma gota de orvalho nesta terra amaldiçoada
Que ficou sobre a minha carne como uma nódoa do passado.
Eu deixarei... tu irás e encostarás a tua face em outra face
Teus dedos enlaçarão outros dedos e tu desabrocharás para a madrugada
Mas tu não saberás que quem te colheu fui eu, porque eu fui o grande íntimo da noite
Porque eu encostei minha face na face da noite e ouvi a tua fala amorosa
Porque meus dedos enlaçaram os dedos da névoa suspensos no espaço
E eu trouxe até mim a misteriosa essência do teu abandono desordenado.
Eu ficarei só como os veleiros nos portos silenciosos
Mas eu te possuirei mais que ninguém porque poderei partir
E todas as lamentações do mar, do vento, do céu, das aves, das estrelas
Serão a tua voz presente, a tua voz ausente, a tua voz serenizada.


THE LOCKLESS DOOR

It went many years, It But at last came a knock, And I thought of the door With no lock to lock.
I blew out the light, I tip-toed the floor, And raised both hands In prayer to the door. 
But the knock came again My window was wide, I climbed on the sill And descended outside. 
Back over the sill I bade a Come in' To whatever the knock At the door may have been. So at a knock I emptied my cage To hide in the world And alter with age.

Good Bones by Maggie Smith.

Life is short and I've shortened mine,
in a thousand delicious, ill-advised ways,
a thousand deliciously ill-advised ways
I’ll keep from my children. The world is at least
fifty percent terrible, and that’s a conservative
estimate, though I keep this from my children.

For every bird, there is a stone thrown at a bird.
For every loved child, a child broken, bagged,
sunk in a lake. Life is short and the world
is at least half terrible, and for every kind
stranger, there is one who would break you,
though I keep this from my children.

I am trying to sell them the world. Any decent realtor,
walking you through a real shithole, chirps on
about good bones: This place could be beautiful,
right? You could make this place beautiful.

The Strongest of the Strange
By Charles Bukowski

You won’t see them often
for wherever the crowd is
they are not.
those odd ones, not
many but from them
come the few good paintings
the few good symphonies
the few good books
and other works.
and from the best of the
strange ones perhaps nothing.
they are their own paintings
their own books
their own music
their own work.
sometimes I think
I see them– say
a certain old man
sitting on a certain bench
in a certain way or
a quick face going the other
way in a passing automobile 
or there’s a certain motion
of the hands of a bag-boy or a bag-girl
while packing supermarket groceries. 
sometimes it is even somebody
you have been living with for some time
you will notice a lightning-quick glance
never seen from them before. 
sometimes you will only note
their existence suddenly in
vivid recall some months
some years after they are gone.
I remember such a one
he was about 20 years old
drunk at 10 a.m. staring into
a cracked New Orleans mirror
facing dreaming against 
the walls of the world
where did I go?

Humberto Moura
You will be yourself again.
When the still-bringers are no longer,
--from the chaotic salty tears--,
you will flourish to the greenest of them all once more,
only to bring them again.
You'll be reborn, remade, and eager to stain,
finally able to be yourself again.